---
layout: post
title: "Devlog #1"
tags: [devlog]
---

#### Setting up Jekyll for daily dev logsSetting up Jekyll for daily dev logs

Almost two months into the year and I was browsing a dev log blog which I thought would really be useful to incorporate into my own routine. My dad used to make me keep a log book as a kid to debug "electrical" issues.

gem install bundler jekyll

> Building native extensions. This could take a while...
ERROR:  Error installing jekyll:
	ERROR: Failed to build gem native extension.

What I needed was to install **ruby-dev** on Ubuntu

#### Problems for the day

I need to find an alternative to Socket.IO for the current system, it really doesn't make sense to use Socket.IO when I don't even have real time/time critical data. Web hooks or some kind of callback or server-push would be more helpful.

There's a POST request every 2 seconds from multiple devices which crashes the AJAX.

Django still seems like the better idea over an async framework like Tornado in this case when it comes down to user management, security etc.

#### Wins of the day

Whelp I managed to get through the Channels 2 tutorial on the official docs place.

There's still a long way to go before I actually get down to coding. In the mean time I might brush up on distributed databases.

#### TIL

First time I heard about even driver architecture. Pretty sure I've used the tech behind it before but I never knew it had a formal name. And it looks like it's a part of the microservice architecture (https://aws.amazon.com/event-driven-architecture/).

More fun facts from RedHat https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/integration/what-is-event-driven-architecture

This article lists out all the possible ways you could go about this https://nordicapis.com/5-protocols-for-event-driven-api-architectures/

* WebSockets
* WebHooks
* REST Hooks
* Pub-Sub
* Server Sent Events (SSE)

#### TODO

* Dive deep into Django channels
* Read up on Django REST framework
* Honestly the first thing I need to do for tomorrow is to look into all the event driven tech and see which one works well for our use case.
